## Challenge

"This is the Custom Cyclical Cipher! Download the ciphertext here. Download the encoder here. Enclose the flag in our wrapper for submission. If the flag was "example" you would submit "picoCTF{example}"."

There's 2 lookup tables given. `lookup1`'s index is looked up, subtracted from the previous character's index and then the modulo function is done on that to ensure it's within the array limits. This value is then compared to the index of `lookup2` and fed into the encoded cipher. After this the current character's index is taken as the previous and the process repeats.

```
lookup1 = "\n \"#()*+/1:=[]abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"
lookup2 = "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTabcdefghijklmnopqrst"
```

The ciphertext is 
```
DLSeGAGDgBNJDQJDCFSFnRBIDjgHoDFCFtHDgJpiHtGDmMAQFnRBJKkBAsTMrsPSDDnEFCFtIbEDtDCIbFCFtHTJDKerFldbFObFCFtLBFkBAAAPFnRBJGEkerFlcPgKkImHnIlATJDKbTbFOkdNnsgbnJRMFnRBNAFkBAAAbrcbTKAkOgFpOgFpOpkBAAAAAAAiClFGIPFnRBaKliCgClFGtIBAAAAAAAOgGEkImHnIl
```

## How I solved it

By reversing the logic and understanding the code with the help of chatgpt, I drew up a decoder script in python. The decoder took the current value index from `lookup2`, added the previous index to the current one (since `prev` was subtracted in the encoding process, we had to add it back) and the same modulo function was done and the final index value was compared to `lookup1` to get the deciphered text. 

```
import sys

ciphertext = "DLSeGAGDgBNJDQJDCFSFnRBIDjgHoDFCFtHDgJpiHtGDmMAQFnRBJKkBAsTMrsPSDDnEFCFtIbEDtDCIbFCFtHTJDKerFldbFObFCFtLBFkBAAAPFnRBJGEkerFlcPgKkImHnIlATJDKbTbFOkdNnsgbnJRMFnRBNAFkBAAAbrcbTKAkOgFpOgFpOpkBAAAAAAAiClFGIPFnRBaKliCgClFGtIBAAAAAAAOgGEkImHnIl"

lookup1 = "\n \"#()*+/1:=[]abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"
lookup2 = "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTabcdefghijklmnopqrst"

flag = ""

prev = 0
for char in ciphertext:
    cur = lookup2.index(char)
    flag += lookup1[(cur + prev) % 40]
    prev = (cur + prev) % 40

print(flag)
```

However, I didn't receive a flag when I ran this program. Instead, this was my output - 

```
Decoded plaintext: #asciiorder
#fortychars
#selfinput
#pythontwo

chars = ""
from fileinput import input
for line in input():
    chars += line
b = 1 / 1

for i in range(len(chars)):
    if i == b * b * b:
        print chars[i] #prints
        b += 1 / 1
```
I was stuck here for quite a while cause I didn't understand whether this was an error being shown because my decoder program was wrong or not. But it wouldn't make sense for this to be an error cause this isn't a typical error message, it's a program in itself. I understood then that this is probably a program we have to run in order to find the flag. Simply running it though didn't do anything. However, since it says "selfinput" in python2, I decided to run this program with the program itself as its input with `cat less.py | python2 less.py` which gave me the output -
```
a
d
l
i
b
s
```

Therefore, the flag is `picoCTF{adlibs}`.